22/06/2020
You cannot, nor should you ever try to, change your partner.
That is his or her job. Your job is to change the ways you
communicate, react, and respond to your partner.

1, I helped many divorced couples to get remarriaged.

With love and good communication most problems,
even the “big problems,” can be solved and resolved. By
first addressing the small problems, the bigger problems sometimes
just vanish or are easily resolved.


Gender differences show up the most after getting
involved in an intimate relationship, having children
together, or when we are under a lot of stress.


Men often complain, She is over-reacting
and women complain, He doesn’t listen!
By remembering men are from Mars, women are from
Venus at times of frustration, worry, or disappointment,
instead of thinking something is wrong with your partner or
your relationship, you may discover that you are

For example, when a man is distant, rather than assuming
he is not interested in her or imagining that he is mad at her, a
woman can instead realize that he is just recuperating from a
stressful day. With this insight she is free from worry and knows
to give him space to be in his “cave” and eventually he will
come out. Or when a woman is talking about the problems of
her day, rather than assuming she is looking for solutions and
giving solutions, a man can instead recognize that she is just
needing to talk about her day and as a result she will feel better.
With this insight, he is free to relax and listen without trying to
interrupt with solutions. As in both of these examples, when we
know what is really happening and what is required, relationships
become so much easier.

At that moment I started to realize the real meaning of
love—unconditional love. I had always thought of myself as a
loving person. But she was right. I had been a fair-weather
friend. As long as she was happy and nice, I loved back. But if
she was unhappy or upset,

--my own intrests
touching, holding, and listening were so important to her

Not only do men and women communicate
differently but they think, feel, perceive, react,
respond, love, need, and appreciate differently. They almost
seem to be from different planets, speaking


We usually
become angry or frustrated with the opposite sex because we
have forgotten this important truth. We expect the opposite
sex to be more like ourselves. We desire them to “want what
we want” and “feel the way we feel.”
We mistakenly assume that if our partners

common mistakes. 

the two biggest
mistakes we make in relating to the opposite sex: men mistakenly
offer solutions and invalidate feelings while women offer
unsolicited advice and direction.


Handling stress : 
While Martians tend to pull away
and silently think about what’s bothering them, Venusians
feel an instinctive need to talk about what’s bothering them.

Men are motivated when they feel needed while
women are motivated when they feel cherished.


overcome our greatest challenges: men need to overcome
their resistance to giving love while women must overcome
their resistance to receiving it.

Women will learn what to do
when a man stops talking, and men will learn how to listen
better without becoming frustrated.
In chapter 6 you will discover how

A man gets close but then
inevitably needs to pull away. Women will learn how to support
this pulling-away process so he will spring back to her
like a rubber band


accepting, and appreciative. Women primarily need a kind of
love that is caring, understanding, and respectful.

Men will learn that by acting as if they are always right
they may invalidate a woman’s feelings. Women will learn
how they unknowingly send messages of disapproval instead
of disagreement, thus igniting a man’s defenses.
24/06/2020

Women always needs to help men, but he doesn't knew it. 


They are more concerned with outdoor activities, like
hunting, fishing, and racing cars. They are interested in the
news, weather, and sports and couldn’t care less about
romance novels and self-help books.
They are more interested in “objects” and “things” rather
than people and feelings. Even today on Earth, while women
fantasize about romance, men fantasize about powerful cars,



He wants to help her feel better by solving her problems.
He wants to be useful to her. He feels he can be valued and thus
worthy of her love when his abilities are used to solve her problems.

He has no idea that by just listening with empathy and
interest he can be supportive. He does not know that on Venus
talking about problems is not an invitation to offer a solution

men are goal oriented and women are relationship oriented

Venus 
They are very involved in personal
growth, spirituality, and everything that can nurture
life, healing, and growth.
growth. Venus is covered with parks, organic
gardens, shopping centers, and restaurants.



When they care about someone, they freely
point out what can be improved and suggest how to do it.
Offering advice and constructive criticism is an act of love.

When a woman tries to improve a man, he feels she is trying
to fix him. He receives the message that he is broken. She
doesn’t realize her caring attempts to help him may humiliate
him. She mistakenly thinks she is just helping him to
grow.



For example, Tom and Mary were going to a party. Tom
was driving. After about twenty minutes and going around the
same block a few times, it was clear to Mary that Tom was
lost. She finally suggested that he call for help. Tom became
very silent. They eventually arrived at the party, but the tension
from that moment persisted the whole evening. Mary
had no idea of why he was so upset.
From her side she was saying “I love and care about you,
so I am offering you this help.”
From his side, he was offended. What he heard was “I
don’t trust you to get us there. You are incompetent!”




women talk about problems to
get close and not necessarily to get solutions.

important it was just to listen without offering solutions.


To summarize the two most common mistakes we make
in relationships:
1. A man tries to change a woman’s feelings when
she is upset by becoming Mr. Fix-It and offering solutions
to her problems that invalidate her feelings.
2. A woman tries to change a man’s behavior when
he makes mistakes by becoming the homeimprovement
committee and offering unsolicited
advice or criticism.


If you are a woman, I suggest that for the next week practice
restraining from giving any unsolicited advice or criticism.
The men in your life not only will appreciate it but also
will be more attentive and responsive to you.
If you are a man, I suggest that for the next week you practice
listening whenever a woman speaks, with the sole intention
of respectfully understanding what she is going through.
Practice biting your tongue whenever you get the urge to offer
a solution or change how she is feeling. You will be surprised
when you experience how much she appreciates you.

He feels better by solving problems while she feels
better by talking about problems.


Women generally do not understand how Martians cope
with stress. They expect men to open up and talk about all
their problems the way Venusians do. When a man is stuck in
his cave, a woman resents his not being more open. She feels
hurt when he turns on the news or goes outside to play some
basketball and ignores her.


They expect men to open up and talk about all
their problems the way Venusians do. When a man is stuck in
his cave, a woman resents his not being more open. She feels
hurt when he turns on the news or goes outside to play some
basketball and ignores her.



As a man under stress tends to focus on one problem and
forget others, a woman under stress tends to expand and
become overwhelmed by all problems. By talking about all
possible problems without focusing on problem solving she
feels better.

To feel better, women talk about past problems, future
problems, potential problems, even problems that have no
solutions. The more talk and exploration, the better they feel.
This is the way women operate.



Martians talk about problems for only two reasons: they
are blaming someone or they are seeking advice. If a woman
is really upset a man assumes she is blaming him. If she
seems less upset, then he assumes she is asking for advice.
If he assumes she is asking for advice, then he puts on his
Mr. Fix-It hat to solve her problems. If he assumes she is
blaming him, then he draws his sword to protect himself from
attack. In both cases, he soon finds it difficult to listen.

Just as a man is fulfilled through working out the
intricate details of solving a problem, a woman is fulfilled
through talking about the details of her problems.

Men are motivated and empowered
when they feel needed. . . .
Women are motivated and empowered
when they feel cherished.

Martian attitudes have a place in life, but
this win/lose attitude becomes harmful in our adult relationships.

Most men are not only hungry to give love but are starving
for it.

When a man doesn’t feel he is making a positive difference
in someone else’s life, it is hard for him to continue caring
about his life and relationships.

In her younger years, a woman is
much more willing to sacrifice and mold herself to fulfill her
partner’s needs. In a man’s younger years, he is much more
self-absorbed and unaware of the needs of others.

As a woman
matures she realizes how she may have been giving up herself
in order to please her partner. As a man matures he realizes
how he can better serve and respect others.
instead of blaming his female partner for being
resentful, a man can be compassionate and offer his support
even if she doesn’t ask for it, listen to her even if at first it
sounds like blame, and help her to trust and open up to him
by doing little things for her to show that he cares.

Men pull back and then get close,
while women rise and fall in their ability to love themselves
and others.


Men primarily need
trust, acceptance, appreciation, admiration, approval, and
encouragement. Women primarily need caring, understanding,
respect, devotion, validation, and reassurance.

reviewing this list you can easily see why your partner
may not feel loved.


Women need to receive Men need to receive
1. Caring 1. Trust
2. Understanding 2. Acceptance
3. Respect 3. Appreciation
4. Devotion 4. Admiration
5. Validation 5. Approval
6. Reassurance 6. Encouragement